USERGUIDE FOR URLyBIRD 1.3.3


STARTING THE APPLICATION

To start the application you need to type from the root directory

java -jar runme.jar [<mode>] where mode can be "alone", "server" or empty

First  a gui will open and prompt you for a filename (if in server or alone mode)
or for the host you want to connect to.  After this step, 

-If in server mode, the server will open the file you specified and start accepting connections from clients. 
 You can read the messages from the server in the text field at the bottom , and
 stop the server when you are done (using the "Stop" button or closing the window)
 
-If running as a client, it will try to connect to machine you specified. If successful,
 the main gui will appear. Otherwise you will be prompted for the host again

-If running as a standalone, the specified file will be opened. You will work locally.
 No connection to remote computers will be created.


The property "hostName" and "filename" are remembered in the file "suncertify.properties"

USER INTERFACE

The user interface´s main window´s title reads "Connected to local database" if
the program is running locally or "Connected to <host>" if the program is running
remotely. 

SCREEN LAYOUT

The screen in the user interface is divided in three parts. On the right in a
table the occupancies are shown. When the program is started all occupancies are shown.
You can read data about every single available room : Hotel Name, City, Smoking 
flag, Max Occupancy, Price Per Night, Date Available, Customer Number.
You can select a row in the table but you can't edit data directly in the table.
The user interface has a menu and a toolbar where the commands Filter, Show All,
Book, Unbook, Quit and Refresh can be found. 

SEARCHING

On the top left panel filter criteria are shown. You can search rooms by hotel,
city or both. To show the rooms that match only the criteria you chose in 
the panel's comboboxes you have to click on the button "Filter". 
 
SHOW ALL

Click on the button Show All to make sure all rooms are shown. The filter panel
comboboxes will be reset.

BOOK & UNBOOK 

On the bottom left panel you can book a room or undo the booking. After you 
select a row in the table the book button is enabled if the room is still free,
the unbook button is enabled if the room is already booked.
The book / unbook operation is always allowed even if the room's available date
is in the past or will not be available in the next 48 hours. If you try to
perform such an operation on those rooms, however, you will be prompted before
going to on to finalize the operation. To book you must type the customer number
in the panel's customer textfield first.
The operation will not be successful if there has been any concurrent change. 
The record will be reloaded in this case.

REFRESH 

The refresh command makes sure the data is read directly from the file. 
Cache is refreshed.

QUIT

Closing the window or choosing the quit menu item / button will make you disconnect and leave the application.


